---
date: 2018-08-17
title: Two questions at the Applied Improvisation Network Conference
image: img/ain-2018.jpg
categories: ["Improvisation"]
tags: ["ain","podcast","improvisation","management","applied improv"]
---



From August 23rd and 26th 2018, Paris is hosting the [Applied Improvisation Network conference](http://appliedimprovisation.network).

> "Applied Improvisation" consists of using theatre improvisation outside of the theatre space to foster the development of teams, to improve communication and to teach the multiple skills in improv (creativity, listening, etc.).

The [Applied Improvisation Network](http://appliedimprovisation.network) is a community of more than 5000 members online. This conference is a platform for improvisers applying their passion in various fields to share how to bring the improv mindset off the stage.

[I am a podcaster](http://podcastscience.fm) and I will be recording the attendees' answers to the following two questions.  You can listen to the lastest recordings below.

<iframe src="https://player.pippa.io/5b793e715d32cfd871dc6e9c?theme=default&cover=1&latest=1" frameBorder="0" width="100%" height="218px" allow="autoplay"></iframe>

Here are the questions.

> **When did you discover applied improvisation?**

I discovered the official term "applied improvisation" two years after I began applying improvisation outside of the theatre in 2016. It seemed evident that other people were seeing links between the work of improvisation and what is needed in a business setting but I could not imagine that such a network as the Applied Improvisation Network existed. While I was starting to use [status](https://improwiki.com/en/wiki/improv/status) and word association games in meetings, I started looking for books and communities working on the same topics and discovered the [vast library of the AIN](http://appliedimprovisation.network/library/books-articles/) dedicated to applied improv.

Some attendees of the conference, like [Paul Z. Jackson](http://appliedimprovisation.network/practitioner/paul-z-jackson/), have been practicing applied improvisation for 20 years. I'm sure the conference attendees have exciting stories to share about their first experiments.

> **What example of applied improvisation are you the most proud of?**

Bringing improvisation games to non-improvisers is always a challenge. The first time I tried a game with my team before a creative session, ([One word at a time](https://dramaresource.com/one-word-at-a-time/))  I received mixed reactions. Some were very excited where others were relieved that fortunately the game was not too long. But everyone gave me the feedback that this game helped them be more open for creative work and see the concept of _listening_ with a new dimension.

This is only a small example from an _amateur_ improviser experimenting. Many of the conference participants have been building and improving their application of theater techniques since years and have created full workshops with a targeted goal in mind. I can't wait to discover more examples of applied improv in a business setting.

{{< partial "mailing" "Subscribe to receive a mail for each new podcast and learn more about applied improvisation.">}}

Perhaps we'll have a chance meet at the conference. If not, please share your answers to the questions in the comments below. 
When did you discover applied improvisation?
What example of applied improvisation are you the most proud of? 




